_includes/devdoc/dash-core/rest/intro.md, before:

{% comment %}
This file is licensed under the MIT License (MIT) available on
http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT.
{% endcomment %}
{% assign filename="_includes/devdoc/dash-core/rest/intro.md" %}

### HTTP REST
{% include helpers/subhead-links.md %}

{% autocrossref %}

As of [version 0.10.0][bitcoin core 0.10.0], Bitcoin Core provides
an **unauthenticated** HTTP REST interface.  The interface runs on the
same port as the JSON-RPC interface, by default port 8332 for mainnet and
port 18332 for testnet. It must be enabled by either starting Bitcoin
Core with the `-rest` option or by specifying `rest=1` in the
configuration file. Make sure that the RPC interface is also activated.
Set `server=1` in `bitcoin.conf` or supply the `-server` argument when 
starting Bitcoin Core. Starting Bitcoin Core with `bitcoind` automatically 
enables the RPC interface.

The interface is not intended for public access and is only accessible
from localhost by default.

{{WARNING}} A web browser can access a HTTP REST interface running on
localhost, possibly allowing third parties to use cross-site scripting
attacks to download your transaction and block data, reducing your
privacy.  If you have privacy concerns, you should not run a browser on
the same computer as a REST-enabled Bicoin Core node.

The interface uses standard [HTTP status
codes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_HTTP_status_codes) and
returns a plain-text description of errors for debugging.

{% endautocrossref %}

Commit message:

HTTP REST updates  - Updated all requests with Dash examples  - Updated all requests to add/remove fields to match Dash

_includes/devdoc/dash-core/rest/intro.md, after:

{% comment %}
This file is licensed under the MIT License (MIT) available on
http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT.
{% endcomment %}
{% assign filename="_includes/devdoc/dash-core/rest/intro.md" %}

### HTTP REST
{% include helpers/subhead-links.md %}
<!-- __ -->
{% autocrossref %}

Dash Core provides an **unauthenticated** HTTP REST interface.  The interface
runs on the same port as the JSON-RPC interface, by default port 9998 for
mainnet and port 19998 for testnet. It must be enabled by either starting Dash
Core with the `-rest` option or by specifying `rest=1` in the
configuration file. Make sure that the RPC interface is also activated.
Set `server=1` in `dash.conf` or supply the `-server` argument when
starting Dash Core. Starting Dash Core with `dashd` automatically
enables the RPC interface.

The interface is not intended for public access and is only accessible
from localhost by default.

{{WARNING}} A web browser can access a HTTP REST interface running on
localhost, possibly allowing third parties to use cross-site scripting
attacks to download your transaction and block data, reducing your
privacy.  If you have privacy concerns, you should not run a browser on
the same computer as a REST-enabled Dash Core node.

The interface uses standard [HTTP status
codes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_HTTP_status_codes) and
returns a plain-text description of errors for debugging.

{% endautocrossref %}
